---
title: A Yearly Reflection
date: 2023-01-05
last_modified_at: 2023-01-05
categories: year-in-review journal
excerpt: Looking back on 2022, and forward to 2023.
travel-gallery-1:
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/roxanne-1.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/roxanne-1.jpg
    alt: "Roxanne in the New York Botanical Garden."
    title: "Roxanne in the New York Botanical Garden."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/nyc-skyline.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/nyc-skyline.jpg
    alt: "New York City's skyline, viewed from SUMMIT One."
    title: "New York City's skyline, viewed from SUMMIT One."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/roxanne-2.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/roxanne-2.jpg
    alt: "Roxanne in Central Park, sipping coffee."
    title: "Roxanne in Central Park, sipping coffee."
travel-gallery-2:
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/lake-guntersville.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/lake-guntersville.jpg
    alt: "Our view out on Lake Guntersville."
    title: "Our view out on Lake Guntersville."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/mammoth-cave-1.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/mammoth-cave-1.jpg
    alt: "Mammoth Cave, heading down into the Frozen Niagara."
    title: "Mammoth Cave, heading down into the Frozen Niagara."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/mammoth-cave-2.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/mammoth-cave-2.jpg
    alt: "Mammoth Cave, looking up at the dripstone ceiling."
    title: "Mammoth Cave, looking up at the dripstone ceiling."
travel-gallery-3:
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/sculpture.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/sculpture.jpg
    alt: "A sculpture in NOMA's Sculpture Garden."
    title: "A sculpture in NOMA's Sculpture Garden."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/steamboat.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/steamboat.jpg
    alt: "A steamboat on the Mississippi River."
    title: "A steamboat on the Mississippi River."
travel-gallery-4:
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/seagull.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/seagull.jpg
    alt: "A seagull dropping a clam."
    title: "A seagull dropping a clam."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/waves.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/waves.jpg
    alt: "Waves on the Atlantic ocean."
    title: "Waves on the Atlantic ocean."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/harbor.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/harbor.jpg
    alt: "A foggy morning in Bar Harbor."
    title: "A foggy morning in Bar Harbor."
rudi-gallery:
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/rudi-1.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/rudi-1.jpg
    alt: "Rudi swimming (walking) in the Little Miami River."
    title: "Rudi swimming (walking) in the Little Miami River."
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/rudi-2.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/rudi-2.jpg
    alt: "Rudi with his frisbee on my parents' lawn."
    title: "Rudi with his frisbee on my parents' lawn."
ben-gallery:
  - url: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/ben.jpg
    image_path: /assets/img/a-yearly-reflection-2023/ben.jpg
    alt: "Me holding my camera in Acadia National Park."
    title: "Me holding my camera in Acadia National Park."
---

The beginning of a year is always a time of reflection and introspection. It's why so many people, myself included,
make some form of New Year's resolutions, dedicated to living a healthier life, reconnecting with old hobbies, or
otherwise. More often than not, those resolutions are never met. At the risk of sounding like a defeatist, it does
seem silly and nonsensical to repeat this cycle year after year.

That said, this moment of introspection is nevertheless valuable to me; the exercise of setting goals sparks, at a
minimum, some improved self-awareness. If the goal happens to be met, all the better. So, without further ado, I'll
begin the familiar song and dance, looking back on the year past and discussing what I hope the year forward brings.

## Looking Back

By and large, 2022 was a great year both personally and professionally. 

**Professionally,** I marked my five year anniversary at [Etegent](etegent.com), becoming more involved in additional
contracts as well as taking on my first formal supervisory role with a [co-op student](https://www.uc.edu/co-op.html).

**Personally,** there were several highlights for the year:
* I built my first custom gaming computer, sporting a
  [Ryzen 5800X](https://www.amd.com/en/products/cpu/amd-ryzen-7-5800x) and
  [NVIDIA 3070](https://www.evga.com/products/product.aspx?pn=08G-P5-3767-KL) in an
  [ITX chassis](https://phanteks.com/Evolv-Shift2-Air.html).
* I enjoyed several vacations [traveling](#travel) around the US -- the most I've ever taken in a single year.
* My girlfriend and I spent our first full year with our black labrador retriever [Rudi](#rudi), enjoying his chaotic
  and cuddly energy in our apartment. 
* With COVID restrictions essentially gone around the US, I was able to enjoy seeing
  [Twenty One Pilots](https://www.twentyonepilots.com/) perform in Cincinnati, my first-ever concert.

### Travel

{% include gallery id="travel-gallery-1" class="no-margin" caption="New York City" %}

Travel certainly was the highlight of the year for me, and it all began with a trip to New York City with my girlfriend,
Roxanne. We made the trip towards the end of March, with the primary purpose of visiting my brother -- he'd moved there
from Ohio in the summer of 2021. We did see him plenty -- enjoying [Hadestown](https://www.hadestown.com/) on Broadway
and live ragtime music starring [Terry Waldo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Waldo), as well as several fantastic
meals.

But beyond visiting my brother, it was also my first time in the city. We enjoyed the typical tourist fare, visiting
various museums -- [MoMA](https://www.moma.org/) really is a standout -- as well as the 9/11 Memorial, Chelsea Market,
Levain Bakery and so on. The only notable omission I can think of was missing the Statue of Liberty; I'll see her next
time. 

{% include gallery id="travel-gallery-2" class="no-margin" caption="Lake Guntersville & Mammoth Cave" %}

The next venture happened a few months later. I traveled with my girlfriend's family on their yearly lakeside vacation,
this time to [Lake Guntersville](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guntersville_Lake) in northern Alabama. It was a fine
trip, slightly sullied by the relative scarcity of clear sunny weather over the week, but I'll never complain about
being on or beside the water.

The real highlight of the trip for me, though, was making an excursion to
[Mammoth Cave National Park](https://www.nps.gov/maca/index.htm) with Roxanne on our way home. One of my life's goals is
to visit as many national parks as I can, and this one was new to me. We took a guided cave tour -- I believe we chose
the "Domes & Dripstones Tour" -- that began with a several hundred step descent, and concluded with a beautiful
dripstone area called the "Frozen Niagara." I expected to be somewhat claustrophobic in the caves, but really it was too
enchanting -- and exhausting -- to really worry about that. If you're not afraid of stairs, and can manage squeezing
through some (quite accommodating) gaps, I'd certainly recommend it.

{% include gallery id="travel-gallery-3" class="no-margin" caption="New Orleans" %}

At the end of August, my girlfriend and I went on our _third_ trip together, this time to New Orleans, another new
destination to me. She was invited there by her company for a conference, so I was able to explore the city some on my
own. I like museums, and the [National WWII Museum](https://www.nationalww2museum.org/) did not disappoint; it is 
_expansive_. It seemed to assume some foundational knowledge, so those of us who actually enjoyed history class in
school might get a bit more from the experience, but anyone could get lost in there for several hours.

While I was together with Roxanne, we took a couple city tours to see the architecture and learn a bit of the rich
history of the area. I'd visit again just for the food; a relatively new restaurant, 
[Barrone Bistro](https://baronnebistro.com/#), was particularly good, and of course the beignets around the city were
perfect little treats.

{% include gallery id="travel-gallery-4" class="no-margin" caption="Mount Desert Island" %}

Our final trip of the year (accompanied by my family) was to Mount Desert Island, Maine, home of
[Acadia National Park](https://www.nps.gov/acad/index.htm) and the charming tourist town of
[Bar Harbor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bar_Harbor,_Maine). As I said in
[my earlier post](/photo-journal/2022-11-12-bar-harbor-and-acadia-national-park/), it really is one of my favorite
places on Earth. I was so glad to take Roxanne on her first trip there.

### Rudi

{% include gallery id="rudi-gallery" class="no-margin" %}

Roxanne and I adopted Rudi from the [Cincinnati Lab Rescue](https://www.cincinnatilabrescue.org/) in October of 2021,
and 2022 marked our first full year with him, really getting comfortable with each other. Like any pet, he can sometimes
be a bit of a chore to take care of, but he has been such an uplifting part of our lives. He's always so happy and he
loves to cuddle, perfect for a pair of introverts who love to stay at home on the couch.

## Looking Forward

{% include gallery id="ben-gallery" class="no-margin" %}

Looking back, I realize that every year, traveling is always the highlight. Thinking about why that is, for me I think
it's about more than just exploring new places. When I'm traveling, I'm more physically **active**. I'm more engaged in
my **hobbies**. I'm nourishing my mind by **reading books** more and scrolling through Reddit less. Vacations make the
perfect escapes from everyday life, but they also highlight the things we ought to just do every day.

Given that realization, I'm beginning 2023 with these goals:
* **Be more active.** In a more measurable sense, I'm aiming to get to the gym ~5 times a week, and to make sure that
  I'm [closing my rings](https://www.apple.com/watch/close-your-rings/) (the activity rings on my Apple Watch, that is)
  even on the days I don't.
* **Eat better.** Being more active will feel better if I weighed less. It's easier and more pleasant to move around if
  you're carrying less weight. I've experienced it before. And the biggest part of losing weight is improving your diet.
  I've already talked about some of the tools I'm using to motivate myself towards this goal in a
  [previous post](/posts/2022-11-11-projecting-weight-change/).
* **Pursue my hobbies.** My primary focus in this regard will be engaging more with my photography. Typically, I only
  really get my camera out on vacation, and it consumes my trip; I love capturing my surroundings, especially the
  wildlife I see. It's easier to feel inspired in a new place, but southwest Ohio isn't lacking in natural beauty and
  wildlife. I just need to get out to see it more often.
* **Pivot to reading instead of scrolling.** Social media is certainly addictive, but few would call it fulfilling to
  scroll through for hours. For me, Reddit and TikTok have certainly been a vice. Instead of scrolling through posts
  mindlessly, I'd like to engage my mind a bit more by reading books or legitimate news articles / magazines. I've set
  "Screen Time" limits on my devices to lock me out of Reddit and Tik Tok after a set amount of daily usage, and I'm
  going to replace that time by reading books like The Lord of the Rings or magazines like National Geographic.

For those of you with Apple devices, I can't recommend the [Streaks](https://streaksapp.com/) app enough for keeping
track of goals. It's very flexible and helpful -- it tracks my health goals automatically by looking at the data I'm
already tracking via other apps through Apple Health. And the user interface is delightfully simple at a glance, while
offering the statistics and control you want in just a few taps.
{: .notice--info}

This year, I do genuinely feel more motivated and hopeful about my goals than I can remember ever feeling in the past.
Let's see if this is the year my defeatist skepticism is proven wrong.
